docs/7-vector-search/5-create-vectors/4-google-vertex.mdx, before:

# Using Google Vertex

Google Cloud now offers a series of AI Platform services that are built on top of Vertex AI. These services are designed to help you build, deploy, and manage machine learning models.

To create embeddings, they offer a number of services to convert text, images, or both into embeddings. In our application, we will use the `multimodal` embedding model to search for books by a description of the cover image.

## Create a Google Cloud account

The first step is to create a Google Cloud account. Use the following link to get started with some free credits.

[Sign Up for a Google Cloud Account](https://cloud.google.com/free)

## Create new project

For the welcome screen, create a new project. You can name it whatever you like.

Make sure that you pick an active billing account.

<Screenshot src="/img/screenshots/7-vector-search/5-create-vectors/4-google-vertex/1-create-project.png" url="https://cloud.google.com" />

Once the fields are filled out, click the `Create` button.

## Open Cloud Shell

Once your project is created, look for the `Activate Cloud Shell` button in the top right corner of the screen.

<Screenshot src="/img/screenshots/7-vector-search/5-create-vectors/4-google-vertex/2-activate-cloud-shell.png" url="https://cloud.google.com" />

This will open up a terminal-like window in your browser. This is a fully functional terminal that is connected to a virtual machine in the cloud. You can use this terminal to run commands on your virtual machine.

## Enable the AI Platform API

You will need to enable the AI Platform API for your project. You can do this by running the following command in your Cloud Shell.

```bash
gcloud services enable aiplatform.googleapis.com
```

## Create an authentication file

To authenticate with the AI Platform API, you will need to create a file that contains your application credentials. You can do this by running the following command in your Cloud Shell.

```bash
gcloud auth application-default login
```

Follow the instructions in the terminal to authenticate with your Google Cloud account. Once you have authenticated, you will see a message similar to the following.

```bash
Credentials saved to file: [/tmp/tmp.n0HdRFDDv8/application_default_credentials.json]
```

Save the credentials file to your home directory.

```bash
mv /tmp/tmp.n0HdRFDDv8/application_default_credentials.json ~/credentials.json
```

## Create embeddings for some text

To create embeddings for some text, you will start by creating a `request.json` file. This file will contain the text that you want to convert into embeddings. Run the following command in the Cloud Shell to create this file.

```bash
echo '{
  "instances": [
    {
      "text": "picture of a cat"
    }
  ]
}' >> request.json
```

Now run the following curl command to get the embeddings for the text.

```bash
curl -X POST \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer $(gcloud auth print-access-token)" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8" \
    -d @request.json \
    "https://us-central1-aiplatform.googleapis.com/v1/projects/$PROJECT_ID/locations/us-central1/publishers/google/models/multimodalembedding@001:predict"
```

Make sure to change the `$PROJECT_ID` variable to your project id.

You will receive a response similar to

```json
{
  "predictions": [
    {
      "textEmbedding": [
        -0.00566103263,
        0.0202014241,
        -0.00677233562,
        0.0180264488,
        0.0265100803,
         ...
        0.00116232142,
        0.0134601779,
        -0.00257002981
      ]
    }
  ],
  "deployedModelId": "5595742328217141248"
}
```

You will notice that the `textEmbeddings` fields contains an array of 1408 numbers. These are the embeddings for the text that you provided.

## Create embeddings for the books

To create the embeddings for the books in your collection, you should run this curl command for each book. This process is somewhat time consuming, so we've already created them for you.

You can find the 1408 dimensions vector in `embeddings` field of the new books collection you imported.

Because we already have the vectors for the books, we can use them with Vector Search.

## Querying with vectors

To query the data, Vector Search will need to calculate the distance between the query vector and the vectors of the documents in the collection.

To do so, you will need to vectorize your query. You can use the same function to vectorize your query as well.

In the library application, we've created a function that will vectorize your query for you. You can find it in the `server/embeddings/googleVertex.mjs` file.

```js
import aiplatform from '@google-cloud/aiplatform';

const project = process.env.PROJECT_ID;
const location = process.env.PROJECT_LOCATION;

const {PredictionServiceClient} = aiplatform.v1;
const {helpers} = aiplatform;
const predictionServiceClient = new PredictionServiceClient({
    apiEndpoint: 'us-central1-aiplatform.googleapis.com'
});

const getTermEmbeddings = async (text) => {
  const publisher = "google";
  const model = 'multimodalembedding@001';

  // Configure the parent resource
  const endpoint = `projects/${project}/locations/${location}/publishers/${publisher}/models/${model}`;

  const instance = { text };
  const instanceValue = helpers.toValue(instance);
  const instances = [instanceValue];

  const request = {
    endpoint,
    instances
  };

  // Predict request
  const [response] = await predictionServiceClient.predict(request);
  const embeddings = response.predictions[0].structValue.fields.textEmbedding.listValue.values.map(e => e.numberValue);

  return embeddings;
};

export default getTermEmbeddings;
```

## Configuring the application

In your `server/.env` file, you'll find a few variables that you can use to configure the application.

The first one is `EMBEDDINGS_SOURCE`. It tells the application where to get the embeddings from. You can set it to `googleVertex`.

Then set the `EMBEDDING_KEY` to your `credentials.json` file.

Finally, set the `PROJECT_ID` and `PROJECT_LOCATION` to the values for your project.

```
EMBEDDINGS_SOURCE=googleVertex
EMBEDDING_KEY="./credentials.json"
PROJECT_ID=projectphoenix-verteximage
PROJECT_LOCATION=us-central1
```

Your application now has a `getTermEmbeddings` function that will return the embeddings for a given text. You can see the details of this file in the `server/src/embeddings/googleVertex.js` file.

Commit message:

Added several menu icons to clarify which parts are hands-on etc

docs/7-vector-search/5-create-vectors/4-google-vertex.mdx, after:

# 🦸 Using Google Vertex

:::info
Extra activity, do it if you have extra time or are following at home, won't be covered during the hands-on Lab
:::

Google Cloud now offers a series of AI Platform services that are built on top of Vertex AI. These services are designed to help you build, deploy, and manage machine learning models.

To create embeddings, they offer a number of services to convert text, images, or both into embeddings. In our application, we will use the `multimodal` embedding model to search for books by a description of the cover image.

## Create a Google Cloud account

The first step is to create a Google Cloud account. Use the following link to get started with some free credits.

[Sign Up for a Google Cloud Account](https://cloud.google.com/free)

## Create new project

For the welcome screen, create a new project. You can name it whatever you like.

Make sure that you pick an active billing account.

<Screenshot src="/img/screenshots/7-vector-search/5-create-vectors/4-google-vertex/1-create-project.png" url="https://cloud.google.com" />

Once the fields are filled out, click the `Create` button.

## Open Cloud Shell

Once your project is created, look for the `Activate Cloud Shell` button in the top right corner of the screen.

<Screenshot src="/img/screenshots/7-vector-search/5-create-vectors/4-google-vertex/2-activate-cloud-shell.png" url="https://cloud.google.com" />

This will open up a terminal-like window in your browser. This is a fully functional terminal that is connected to a virtual machine in the cloud. You can use this terminal to run commands on your virtual machine.

## Enable the AI Platform API

You will need to enable the AI Platform API for your project. You can do this by running the following command in your Cloud Shell.

```bash
gcloud services enable aiplatform.googleapis.com
```

## Create an authentication file

To authenticate with the AI Platform API, you will need to create a file that contains your application credentials. You can do this by running the following command in your Cloud Shell.

```bash
gcloud auth application-default login
```

Follow the instructions in the terminal to authenticate with your Google Cloud account. Once you have authenticated, you will see a message similar to the following.

```bash
Credentials saved to file: [/tmp/tmp.n0HdRFDDv8/application_default_credentials.json]
```

Save the credentials file to your home directory.

```bash
mv /tmp/tmp.n0HdRFDDv8/application_default_credentials.json ~/credentials.json
```

## Create embeddings for some text

To create embeddings for some text, you will start by creating a `request.json` file. This file will contain the text that you want to convert into embeddings. Run the following command in the Cloud Shell to create this file.

```bash
echo '{
  "instances": [
    {
      "text": "picture of a cat"
    }
  ]
}' >> request.json
```

Now run the following curl command to get the embeddings for the text.

```bash
curl -X POST \
    -H "Authorization: Bearer $(gcloud auth print-access-token)" \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8" \
    -d @request.json \
    "https://us-central1-aiplatform.googleapis.com/v1/projects/$PROJECT_ID/locations/us-central1/publishers/google/models/multimodalembedding@001:predict"
```

Make sure to change the `$PROJECT_ID` variable to your project id.

You will receive a response similar to

```json
{
  "predictions": [
    {
      "textEmbedding": [
        -0.00566103263,
        0.0202014241,
        -0.00677233562,
        0.0180264488,
        0.0265100803,
         ...
        0.00116232142,
        0.0134601779,
        -0.00257002981
      ]
    }
  ],
  "deployedModelId": "5595742328217141248"
}
```

You will notice that the `textEmbeddings` fields contains an array of 1408 numbers. These are the embeddings for the text that you provided.

## Create embeddings for the books

To create the embeddings for the books in your collection, you should run this curl command for each book. This process is somewhat time consuming, so we've already created them for you.

You can find the 1408 dimensions vector in `embeddings` field of the new books collection you imported.

Because we already have the vectors for the books, we can use them with Vector Search.

## Querying with vectors

To query the data, Vector Search will need to calculate the distance between the query vector and the vectors of the documents in the collection.

To do so, you will need to vectorize your query. You can use the same function to vectorize your query as well.

In the library application, we've created a function that will vectorize your query for you. You can find it in the `server/embeddings/googleVertex.mjs` file.

```js
import aiplatform from '@google-cloud/aiplatform';

const project = process.env.PROJECT_ID;
const location = process.env.PROJECT_LOCATION;

const {PredictionServiceClient} = aiplatform.v1;
const {helpers} = aiplatform;
const predictionServiceClient = new PredictionServiceClient({
    apiEndpoint: 'us-central1-aiplatform.googleapis.com'
});

const getTermEmbeddings = async (text) => {
  const publisher = "google";
  const model = 'multimodalembedding@001';

  // Configure the parent resource
  const endpoint = `projects/${project}/locations/${location}/publishers/${publisher}/models/${model}`;

  const instance = { text };
  const instanceValue = helpers.toValue(instance);
  const instances = [instanceValue];

  const request = {
    endpoint,
    instances
  };

  // Predict request
  const [response] = await predictionServiceClient.predict(request);
  const embeddings = response.predictions[0].structValue.fields.textEmbedding.listValue.values.map(e => e.numberValue);

  return embeddings;
};

export default getTermEmbeddings;
```

## Configuring the application

In your `server/.env` file, you'll find a few variables that you can use to configure the application.

The first one is `EMBEDDINGS_SOURCE`. It tells the application where to get the embeddings from. You can set it to `googleVertex`.

Then set the `EMBEDDING_KEY` to your `credentials.json` file.

Finally, set the `PROJECT_ID` and `PROJECT_LOCATION` to the values for your project.

```
EMBEDDINGS_SOURCE=googleVertex
EMBEDDING_KEY="./credentials.json"
PROJECT_ID=projectphoenix-verteximage
PROJECT_LOCATION=us-central1
```

Your application now has a `getTermEmbeddings` function that will return the embeddings for a given text. You can see the details of this file in the `server/src/embeddings/googleVertex.js` file.
