docs/1-intro.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# 📘 Introduction

|Workshop goals|Learn how to use Atlas Search and GraphQL to integrate powerful full-text search in your apps|
|-|-|
|What you'll learn|How to set up and take advantage of Atlas Search|
|Prerequisites|A free <Link to="http://mongodb.com/try">MongoDB Atlas account</Link> and database|
|Time to complete|90 minutes|

# Prerequisites

If you are following this workshop in the context of a Developer Day, you are already good to go. If not, go through the following workshop first to create you Atlas cluster, import data, and view the sample application.

[Intro Lab](https://mongodb-developer.github.io/intro-lab)

In this workshop, we will also assume some basic knowledge of aggregation pipelines. If you are not familiar with them, you can go through the advanced querying workshop first.

[Advanced Querying With Aggregation Pipelines](https://mongodb-developer.github.io/aggregation-workshop/)

## 🦸 Getting bored?

Look for content with the 🦸 emoji. This content will not be covered by the instructor, but feel free to explore it if you have some spare time.

Commit message:

Added several menu icons to clarify which parts are hands-on etc

docs/1-intro.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# 📘 Introduction

|Workshop goals|Learn how to use Atlas Search and GraphQL to integrate powerful full-text search in your apps|
|-|-|
|What you'll learn|How to set up and take advantage of Atlas Search|
|Prerequisites|A free <Link to="http://mongodb.com/try">MongoDB Atlas account</Link> and database|
|Time to complete|90 minutes|

# Prerequisites

If you are following this workshop in the context of a Developer Day, you are already good to go. If not, go through the following workshop first to create you Atlas cluster, import data, and view the sample application.

[Intro Lab](https://mongodb-developer.github.io/intro-lab)

In this lab, we will also assume some basic knowledge of aggregation pipelines. If you are not familiar with them, you can go through the advanced querying workshop first.

[Advanced Querying With Aggregation Pipelines](https://mongodb-developer.github.io/aggregation-workshop/)

## 📘👐🦸 Navigation bar icons

These labs are meant to be presented by one of our amazing instructors, but you can also do them on your own.

In the navigation bar, you will notice some icons. Here is their meaning:

|Icon|Meaning|
|-|:-|
|📘|Lecture material - If you're following along in an instructor lead session, they probably have covered this already.|
|👐|Hands-on content - Get ready to get some work done. You should follow these steps.|
|🦸|Advanced content - This content isn't covered during the lab, but if you're interested in learning more, you can check it out.|
